---
layout: post
published: true
title: Blog 2.0
thumbnail-img: /thumbs/thumb.png
share-img: "https://jonkalev.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/20210501_03.jpg"
---

I have been remiss in my writing and photography. The past ten months have been reading, and writing papers from 4:30 am into the night six days a week—a trial by fire experience testing whether I could cut it in a graduate psychology program. 
Short answer, yes.
Disclaimer, I have reservations about psychology, I'll address that more in the future, but one must have unconditional positive regard and empathy of another. Your religion cannot draw moral red lines with the idea your choice or sexual orientation is the "right choice." You have to have unconditional love in your heart of all people and treat them equally even those who have committed abhorrent crimes. Acceptance of those who are transgender or having same-sex partners is difficult for some, and I see no possible way how they can be an effective counselor.
My studies the past ten months have been on top of the responsibility of caring for two elderly parents, a herd of cows and a poor job of caring for myself in a pandemic.  When you take a break, its change diapers, deal with bedsores, adjust pillows, check medicine, feed cows, check their water, drive down a long dirt road to the mailbox and wonder if the mail lady has come yet. 
And once a week, I drive to the feed store and stop by see Rike's fancy red taco truck and practice my horrible Spanish.

Moving forward, I'm going to take steps to restore some balance in my life, keeping a blog and sharing photographs is one of them, and I think it's therapeutic given my field. 
My plans academically had been to finish course work at a private religious school. Right now I can’t see the path to get there as my parents are facing increasing limitations due to their declining health and require someone with them around the clock. 
The problem is my camera has been staring at me from the shelf for months. In so many ways it matter the most to me. Instead of the disappointment of not taking photographs because of where I am not, I'm going to photograph the things I experience even if they are unpleasant. My camera reminds me how little academics and other things matter. 
Eldercare is probably one of the hardest things any of us may have to do in life. That's what people told me when I faced this and had to leave my job in Wyoming to care for my parents.. 
They were 100% correct. It is just fucking awful.
In my case, one parent is confined to a hospital bed and wheelchair; the other is semi-mobile and struggles to walk, having lost his ability to drive which he refuses to accept.  Taking keys or disabling vehicles doesn’t seem to work as evidenced by the video below where he uses a ax to break into a vehicle.
The most important prerequisite a caregiver has to have is thick skin. There is no easy way to watch your parents confront physical death (yes, I term it physical I'm still a believer of the eternal nature of consciousness and soul). Science has not yet purged that nor has my sojourn into psychowacko-land strengthened it.
What I witness when a person ages, especially strong-minded, independent men, it is a combination of losing filters, which leads to more overt control and anger issues. All issues for that matter urges, and thoughts be it sex, anger, obsessions, control issues, you name it that are normally suppressed are no longer.
Geez thats wordy, people facing the anxiety of death do very strange things. My former wife calls this the result of a “long death”.
Heidegger describes this as "unconcealment."
When a person realizes that life is finite and the end is near, we also realize we are alone.
In that aloneness, they resort to self-reliance, which they fear losing, lash out at those close, and try to harm them. In my fathers case this is nothing new.
This is when you pause, take deep breaths, and realize its normal. Also, have good legal advice and know your county's social workers- do not hesitate to seek advice. I can’t say they are helpful in the end its on you.
Do not enable the anger and make sure you are protected as they will harm you, disinherit you, punish you financially, or even make threats to have you harmed. 
All I have personally experienced.
This is a difficult path to walk as you care for the person in your life that wishes you harm because anything you do impedes their freedom and is a reminder of approaching death. You have to work hard not to take it personally and endure.
I remember a book I read by Tolstoy, "The Death of Ivan Ilyich." Ilyich was this mean spirited bureaucrat that was dying of a terminal illness and experiencing pain. He was angry and in a lot of pain, which fueled his mean-spiritedness until near the very end when he suddenly realized the truth: he is dying badly because he has lived badly. In the last few days, he made a radical transformation losing his narcissism, arrogance, mean-spiritedness, and listening to others and extending empathy to their life struggles. Tolstoy, and watching my own father suffer from leukemia, have given me an important lesson that's simple - do not wait until you're on your death bed to become who God gave you the ability to be. We all have the potential for personal change, but we must have the will. The "will" part is on us.
Caring for those as I have where one cannot transcend this reinforces Tolstoy's lesson, and it becomes a painful, bitter end. I'm not sure what causes someone to adopt a mindset of wanting to live life well. I have an uncle who is a long-time Mormon bishop, and he is anchored by his faith and focused on things that matter. I have also had another great uncle (now deceased) who lived life well and lived a life of serving others and cherishing his wife and family dearly. Both served as wonderful examples of how to live deeply and meaningfully.
Even in all this chaos and pain, I realize I ‘m blessed, and my partner, who arguably is the best woman thing God ever created, we are taking notes. 
So the new effort at keeping a blog will be an obscure little record my thoughts and questions and sharing a few snapshots. Feel free to follow along..
 
